The President:
Right now, there's a big debate taking place in Washington
that'll affect how much
you pay in taxes next year.
If Congress doesn't act, tax
rates will automatically go up
for just about everybody
in our country.
Typical middle class families
would end up paying an extra $3,000.
That's unacceptable to me.
Not when we know that it's the
middle class that was hit the
hardest by the recession.
And not when we know that taking
this money out of the pockets of
working people is exactly the
wrong thing to do to get our
economy growing faster.
Economists tell us that this tax
hike on working families would
actually cost us well
over a million jobs.
That's why I've been fighting so
hard to cut middle class taxes.
And that's why I brought both
Democrats and Republicans to the
table -- to put
together a compromise,
and work through
our differences,
so we could get this done.
Now, Republicans in Congress
strongly favored permanent tax
breaks for the wealthiest
taxpayers and the wealthiest
estates, most of which would
go to millionaires and even billionaires.
I didn't believe that these
tax cuts were worth the cost.
They'd add to our deficits
without really boosting the economy.
I believed instead that the
best way to help the economy,
and working families, was to
keep middle class tax rates low,
and cut taxes for working
parents, college students,
and small businesses.
And I believed that with
millions of people looking for
jobs, it would be a terrible
mistake to end unemployment
insurance -- not only for
people who are out of work,
but for our entire economy.
So we hammered out a deal that
reflects ideas from both sides.
It wasn't easy, and it's
by no means perfect.
And as with any compromise,
everybody had to live with
elements they didn't like.
But this is a good deal
for the American people.
The vast majority of the tax
cuts in this plan will help the
middle class, including a new
cut in payroll taxes that will
save the average
family about $1,000.
And as this plan is
debated in Congress,
what I want to make clear is the
real difference it will make in
people's lives.
It's going to make a difference
for a single mom with two kids
in Ohio working as a cashier.
With this plan, she'd get a new
payroll tax cut and a bigger
child tax credit together
worth more than $2,300.
It's going to make a difference
for a couple in Florida earning
about $50,000 and trying to put
one of their two kids through college.
They'd save more than $4,000
because the middle class tax
cuts -- including a $2,500 tax credit to go towards college tuition.
And it's going to make an
enormous difference for people
looking for work.
For many of these families,
emergency unemployment insurance
is the last line of defense
between hardship and catastrophe.
And I'd point out, if these
folks stop spending money,
it will also hurt businesses,
which will hurt hiring,
which will damage our economy.
So this plan is going to help
millions of families to make
ends meet because of tax cuts
and unemployment insurance for
people who've lost their jobs
by no fault of their own.
And we included tax relief
for businesses, too --
making it easier for them
to invest and expand.
All told, this will not only
directly help families and businesses.
By putting more money
in people's pockets,
and helping companies grow,
we're going to see people being
able to spend a little more,
we're going to spur hiring --
we're going to strengthen
our entire economy.
Now, I recognize that many of
my friends in my own party are
uncomfortable with some of
what's in this agreement,
in particular the temporary
tax cuts for the wealthy.
I share their concerns.
I don't like those
tax cuts either.
It's clear that
over the long run,
if we're serious about
balancing the budget,
we can't continue to afford
these tax breaks for the
wealthiest taxpayers -- especially when we know that
cutting the deficit is going to demand sacrifice from everyone.
That's the reality.
But at the same time, we can't
allow the middle class in this
country to be caught in
the political crossfire of Washington.
People want us to find
solutions, not score points.
And I will not allow middle
class families to be treated
like pawns on a chessboard.
The opportunity for families
to send their kids to college
hinges on this debate.
The ability of parents to put
food on the table while looking
for a job depends
on this debate.
And our recovery will be
strengthened or weakened based
on the choice that now
rests with Congress.
So I strongly urge members of
both parties to pass this plan.
And I'm confident that they
will do the right thing,
strengthening the middle class
and our economic recovery.
Thanks.